# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* It currently only runs in a web browser
* It requires a keyboard to play, so no touchscreen devices can currently play it
* The gameplay is limited with one short world and no win-state
* There is currently no combat system in the game
* The graphics, while effective, aren't that visually appealing.
* The graphics have no animation to telegraph action. This isn't currently an issue but if the game grows in complexity this could cause issues for clarity.

## Maintenance

Maintenance for this game involves various approaches, depending on if I want to increase the scope of the game, or simply refine the current iteration of the game.

### Improve

If I sought to keep the game the same, the current stage at which the code is at would not require many changes. The unnecessary complexity present in the code won't need to be worked with as much if not much has to change, so apart from fixing some current minor bugs and fine tuning some of the numerical values, the code will likely stay the same. If I wanted to release this iteration, I would also need to extend the gameplay to include a win-state - a goal for completion. Apart from that, maintenance should be relatively simple: keeping it up to date as phaser and the browsers update, and fixing any bugs that may arise.

### Expand

Expanding the current scope would start by refining the current game with expansion in mind. This would mean addressing all the aforementioned issues and cleaning up the current code, which has a lot of unneeded complexity making improvement and expansion harder. First thing would be rewriting a lot of the core functionality to simplify it and fundamentally change the way the movement system works. This is primarily because a lot of the systems I wanted to include clashed with the other sections of the movement system. Having a more robust foundation to build upon would mean complexity being easier to fix and the source of issues more prevalent. Adding the features I missed would also be part of expanding this project.

Other parts include expanding on what people find enjoyable after release, and changing what the players might not like. Similarly to keeping it in it's previous state, continued development would have to ensure any bugs that players find are fixed and that the code stays updated as the libraries and browsers update.&#x20;

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes and Long Term Support

#### Short Term

Some sections of this are changing what may not necessarily be a bug, but changing what doesn't feel good to use based off of personal testing and the opinions of other testers. There were very few bugs that had a significant negative impact, and of the 1 that was encountered during testing that had an explicit negative impact from my view, no one else was able to recreate it and hence a fix is hard to suggest.

* _Feel of acceleration_ - Acceleration currently feels inconsistent, even if it isn't. The way I would attempt to fix this is by implementing thresholds to vary acceleration in a way that feels more predictable.
* _Double Sliding_ - The current check for sliding allows for the player to repeatedly slide indefinitely. Whilst the friction in the physics based system prevents infinite speed, this can be seen as a bug as it is an unintended side effect of implementing movement the way I have. I would fix this very simply by either placing a limit of the amount of dashes that can be performed in a recovery time is required, or not letting the player slide immediately from another slide.
* _Wall Jumps_ - The wall jumps do not feel satisfying or fun and are hard to utilise. The way it stops the player when the jump key is held was originally intended for better control over where the player jumped from but ended up allowing for abuse of the dashing system to gain ludicrous speed. While this may be fun, I consider it a bug which doesn't allow the gameplay to function as intended. I would fix this by completely redoing the movement system, making it tie in more with the force based system and allowing for more fluid controls while on the wall with some sort of indicator to show when the player was touching it.
* _Respawn Velocity_ - An unnoticed bug by testers and a minor one. If the player dies at high velocity, respawning had the player move with some velocity in the horizontal direction they were last going by the same amount regardless of the velocity at death. To fix this I would simply have to ensure the death state sets all values regarding movement to 0.

#### Long Term

**The Browser and Keyboard**

It is unlikely I would be able to take the game in the direction I want without the sue of a keyboard for control. Support for control involving controllers or touchscreens could be implemented retroactively, however the game is designed at its core with keyboard in mind so changing this could be very challenging. As for the browser, I would change the game to be able to run as a standalone application, removing the need for an internet connection to play. I would still like to keep the browser version updated as the game evolves to ensure maximum accessibility, but having a standalone application could address some issues relating to it.

**Limited Gameplay and Completion**

This can be rectified by adding more levels. I would change the way this is done to not use phaser's in-built object creation function but create a custom function that uses tile-sheets/sprites or text arrays like in kaboom to create the levels. As for a win condition, this just means creating some sort of goal for the player to achieve. This can be as simple as a level exit that results in a win, or when combat is added, a final tough enemy encounter in the form of a boss fight.

**Lack of a combat system**

****

