---
description: The videogame as an artistic medium, and its benefits for mental health.
---

# 1.1 Problem Identification

### What's the deal with mental health?

In recent times, there has been a shift in the public's eye with regards to mental health. The world as a whole is shifting towards the acknowledgement of mental health as a problem to be taken seriously. Research done by the World Health Organisation follows this trend: a decline in countries reporting no mental health data from 19% in 2014 to 15% in 2020; 76% of WHO's member states had specific services and laws in place regarding mental health in 2020, up from 60% in 2014; 52% of member states had national mental health protection and prevention programmes in place, as of 2020 up from only 41% in 2014 (www.who.int, 2021).&#x20;

With this change in public awareness and the high importance placed upon maintaining good mental health, it begs the question: what does it have to do with videogames and art?

### Art and the Videogame

What is art? It is most commonly defined as an activity or creation involving objects, painting, music, etc, that are able to express a creator's ideas and feelings, or invoke them in others (Cambridge Dictionary, 2019). It has existed with society for at least 12,000 years (10,000 BCE) and, in varying forms and amounts, exists in every human group from the past to the present (Dissanayake, 2015). Ultimately, its can be summarised as the development of culture, so for a culture like ours which places an increasing amount of importance on mental health, art will have to adapt.

Videogames are a relatively recent phenomenon, the first program to be considered a videogame being made in the 1950s known as Bertie the Brain (news.google.com, 1975). They are a mix of storytelling, music, and a mix of visual arts. They provide opportunities for meaningful learning experiences (PATTON, 2013), and tell stories not by representing their worlds but by getting the player to shape them (Hayot, 2021). Like art, they provide a way for the audience to experience culture as it was during the piece's inception, but also directly partake in it.

### What does it mean for mental health

So, how do the two relate? If art is a representation of what our culture's development is, and our society and culture is moving towards caring about mental health, it is clear that video games occupy a vital position in today's society. While in the past videogames have been criticised for causing violence and aggression, which has been shown to be true in the short term (Ostrov, Gentile and Crick, 2006), this very rarely the case, affecting an order of 0.02 (Cunningham, Engelstätter and Ward, 2016).

As a more direct correlation, a survey taken in the US by the ESA in 2020 had 80% of all players saying videogames had a mentally stimulating effect, 79% said it helps with relaxation, and 57% received joy through play (Entertainment Software Association, 2020). Furthermore, another 55% stated it helped them connect with friends, which is also mentally beneficial. As games are therefore already mentally beneficial, a game that focuses on addressing mental health, or gets players to consider the topic or other social issues, it is my belief they have an amazing potential to affect society positively.
