---
description: most of which will likely have to be cut due to my incompetence :P
---

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Game Mechanics

### Smart Movement

A player will be able to move in direction, with reduced effect while moving in air. The player should be allowed to perform more complicated movements depending on if they meet certain requirements. Sliding, flipping, rolling, and wall jumps will all be a few of the features I aim to include to provide a broad range of options to the player for given situations and make the game feel smoother and more intuitive by allowing for some inventive use of included movements to get around otherwise impassable obstacles. To go with this, I plan to have variable jump height to again allow for more control, and acceleration with small delays to movement stopping at high enough momentum. I believe this will give a good feel to the movement and again expand options for the player. It won't be anywhere near as beautifully crafted as Rain World's movement system, but I will aim to get a similar feel.

### NPCs

While using complicated machine learning to get the enemies to learn how the player behaves would be ideal, I think it may be too complicated for what I aim to achieve. Enemies in my game will start of simply and gradually get more challenging. Each enemy will have a unique and clear weakness and strength, and will try to learn how to best defeat the player after each encounter. They won't necessarily be smart, far from it, but will get better at aiming and predicting player movement as time goes on, and aim to do more of what the player struggles to play against. This will be annoying to make and more annoying to play. Good.

### Combat

Combat will be relatively simple: the enemies will have choreographed attacks they will use periodically, and the player will have a basic weapon they can strike with in any for 4 directions, and one ability which will use a recourse to have an added affect. I will aim to include 3 weapons: a sword, spear, and scythe. Each will have it's own unique feel, and allow for additional movements. The Spear will allow for vaulting at  the cost of reduced horizontal speed and have greater range and slower strikes than the other 2 weapons. The Scythe will allow for diagonal strikes instead of horizontal and vertical strikes like the other two weapons. It will be a more movement focused weapon by allowing the player to hook nearby enemies and use them as leverage to perform small dashes. The Sword will allow for greater acceleration and maximum speed. Overall this will allow for enough complexity for the smart enemies to make sense conceptually and variety for each player to play the way they want to.

### Simplified UI

The game aims to have a very simplified and stripped down UI. This will be achieved by massively simplifying the player and enemy health system to be very outstanding visually: the state of either of them will clearly show their health. The special, soul-like resource will only be present when in use and will otherwise be hidden, but accessible and non-intrusive by pressing a key.

### Death

When the player dies, they will be sent back to their most previous recovered death point. The player can recover their weapon, its upgrades and their access to use abilities by retrieving a small pair of orbs - their eyes. Upon doing so, certain enemies will be strengthened and others respawned depending on the condition the player died in.

### Graphics and level design

I do not plan to do anything special with the graphics. Clearly distinguishable weapons, attacks, player character and enemies are a priority but pixel graphics are the likely choice used for sprites and terrain tiles. The levels should have enough stuff in them to give the player options for mobility, but not so much that it reduces clarity or distracts from gameplay. Use of different colours for the player, dangerous objects and terrain will make this easier to achieve.

The game will have one long level, in the form of an open world the player is free to roam around in. It will have smaller sections with different themes for the enemies present in it, and new obstacles for the player to overcome. This doesn't force the player in any direction, and leaves them free to explore as they see fit.

### Controls

Keyboard only controls. This means it can be played on a laptop without an external mouse, which means greater accessibility for players because there is no need for use of a trackpad to replace a mouse. The controls will be split between the arrow keys and some other letters on the opposite end of the keyboard for a comfortable layout.&#x20;

## Limitations

### Platform

This game will exclusively be for desktop computers as the controls will be designed for a keyboard only. They will not require a mouse as to reduce limitations to laptop users. This will reduce the amount of players who are able to access the game, as the largest demographic of game players play on mobile phones.

### Speed of Gameplay and General performance

The game will be made to run in browser. This limits the performance of the game to what can be done in the particular browser they choose to play in. To optimise performance, the amount of complicated movement will have to be limited in the speed it happens, and the fluid, free movement I want to achieve might be difficult to implement.

### Difficulty

While my personal preference may be towards difficult games, this is not to everyone's liking. For my game to achieve the effect it desires, it will have to be challenging to an extent, but not to the point where it scares off players who may not be looking for a frustrating or difficult game, which if bad.

### Replay value

The game plans to force the player through the game multiple times. As I only plan to have one long level for the player to explore, there is a high likelihood that players might get burned out by the game if they are finding it uneventful and repetitive. While I definitely want to have the player feel this to some extent, I do not want it to the extent that the player quits my game.
