---
description: thanks Ben
---

# 1.4b Computational Methods

### Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Removing unneeded detail from a problem allows for the core issues to be focused and addressed properly. For my purpose, this would mean (for example) the removal of complicated graphical detail and animations, sound design and music, and some of the complicated [movement](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#smart-movement) and [combat](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#combat) features I proposed. If they aren't the bare minimum required for the game to be playable they can be temporarily ignored. What I would consider core features are:

* Basic health, damage and way to deal damage. More weapons, abilities and a resource bar wouldn't work without these, and aren't necessary for basic game functionality.
* Movement in both direction. Acceleration can be soon after, and sliding and dashing (or similar) can be implemented once the necessary movement is done, the latter of which require acceleration and speed measurement to be implemented in the way I want
* Jumping. Variable height would be implemented once the rest of movement is done. Flipping, rolling, and other jump-related movements require more time and would distract from the necessary elements
* A level with more than one room, and terrain to traverse that the player can move between. Climbable obstacles, and terrain dangers (spikes, acid pits) can be added when a system to build a map is constructed.
* A static camera that only changes screen when a new room is entered. This is as complicated as this will get. It's a necessity however, as the camera position will define where a room is.

### Thinking Ahead

Planning or thinking ahead, in this case, will be considering the way the game will feel to play and look like when completed, then considering the actions needed and the orders they should be taken in to achieve that result. An example of this is considering how the sliding will interact with dashes and turning. Depending on my initial implementation of this mechanic, it could prove difficult to integrate it with other mechanics. This will be something that will have to be done well, and before other mechanics to ensure it interacts with all aspects properly.

Other interaction between similar mechanics will need similar treatment, and will likely be points of difficulty throughout the whole project. To keep track of everything, clear naming and comments will be needed to make note of how they interacted last time they were tested.

### Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposing the problem, or game in this case, is understanding the subsections in the game, and then the understanding of the order they need to be executed in is the procedure they follow. For a game this is of interest as it allows for code to be written independently for each subsection, and for how each piece of code will interact with other sections, as oppose to writing it all simultaneously and potentially creating errors in the way all the section interact. By focusing on one section at a time I will be able to ensure each section of the game is finished and they all come together to create a finished product. These subsections are defined in the [success criteria](1.5-success-criteria.md).

### Thinking Logically

Thinking about an outcome and how decisions and conditions affect said outcome is the process of logical thinking. Trying to understand potential outcomes from different situations and determining a way to proceed is vital in the context of a game. A player makes choices in-part independent to the programmer's intention, which means outcomes are in part out of control. By considering likely choices and ensuring the groundwork is there to allow for the unconsidered, every outcome is accounted for. Some simple examples of how this applies in predictable ways are things such as pressing keys having appropriate actions (eg. left arrow going left) and being on 0 health resulting in a game over.

### Thinking Concurrently

Thinking concurrently is just a way of figuring out how many processes can be executed at the same time. In a game, this is figuring out how many processes need to be run on every frame of the game. For my purposes, some examples are:

* Checking each present entity's health to know if it should still be alive
* Checking to see what the player's velocity is and if it's at a threshold to allow for additional movement
